today I'm making homemade sauerkraut
which is a great way to get probiotics
into your diet and not as hard as people
make it out to be first I'm going to cut
the end off the cabbage you can leave in
as much of the core as you want I
generally find that it's a little harder
and not so pleasant so I will cut out
most of it this is generally the
simplest way and I will be fermenting
this in a crock that I bought at Ace
Hardware it was about $20 for this crock
it's a one gallon sized crock and I
bought a new crop because they say that
it's very easy to leach lead out of the
old crocks if they have any kind of
crack at all in their finish and so I
thought it was worth it to buy a new
crop just for this purpose
but without having to spring like a
hundred dollars for one of the fancy
fermenting crops this works just as well
with the trick I will show you at the
end for keeping the sauerkraut submerged
nicely for fermenting
I'm trying to cut my cabbage pretty thin
because you don't really want huge
chunks of sauerkraut you want to be able
to get just just as much sauerkraut as
you want and not hear strings so once I
finished slicing it fairly thinly I'll
turn it like this
and cut across about three times so all
those shreds of cabbage are a reasonable
length and then just drop them right in
the crock here
when you're fermenting the cabbage
you really want it to be completely
submerged in water because the good
bacteria are anaerobic they grow without
the presence of oxygen and the bad
bacteria that might take over if you're
not careful require the presence of
oxygen so loves everything's in there
you want it to make sure you want to
make sure it is completely submerged in
liquid the fermenting process and the
fermenting process pretty much takes as
long as you want it to you want to leave
it for at least a week usually I leave
it for somewhere between two or three
weeks whenever I think oh hey I had
summer cup fermenting around here
somewhere I wonder if it's ready yet
so
there's the cabbage this is big enough
that I can do two heads of cabbage if I
want but then it's very full at the
beginning before it it is compressed
down so it's simpler to deal with if I
just do one head of the time for one
head of cabbage I'm going to put on a
tablespoon of salt this is my usual pink
Himalayan sea salt full of lots of good
minerals and I just sprinkle that over
the cabbage
and you can let it sit for a few minutes
I will go ahead and start working the
salt into it now this works better on a
lower surface because I'm short and it
helps to get your body weight down into
it but you just start tossing it to get
the salt evenly distributed and then
start squeezing and pressing on the
cabbage and in just a few minutes the
cabbage will start releasing liquid
and you will
your cabbage will take up a lot less
space and the liquid usually for me will
almost cover the cabbage I always have
to add a little bit of filtered water so
that it's completely submerged
and this process will take a few minutes
and as slightly energetic requires a
little bit of muscle
after a couple minutes of working and
squeezing this it's compressed down
packed pretty tightly there in the
bottom of the pot it's a lot moister
than it was when I started normally I
can tell it's done when the liquid is
just coming up almost to the service of
the cabbage when I press on it like this
and I press it down very firmly you'll
want it packed in there very tightly for
the next step this cabbage is not
releasing quite as much water but that
is perfectly fine I'll just add a little
more filtered water so that submerged
and once it is packed in there tightly
I will add my water and then I will show
you my trick for keeping it submerged I
learned from My Father
I have water probably till it's just
about an inch or two above the surface
of the cabbage you have a little bit
floating at this point kind of hard to
show you with the angle of the camera
there but that there's what it looks
like when it's tilted
and I will go get a gallon size ziploc
bag and then I'm going to fill this part
way with water this is not going to come
in contact with the sauerkraut so I'm
just using normal tap water here
and I put probably two ports or so of
water in the bag usually maybe a little
less it just needs to be enough to make
a good seal on the sauerkraut and then
in order to seal it tightly I close the
zip on most of the bag and then tilt it
so that the water is there and then
there's just this small portion here
where I'm letting the air out to get as
tight as seal as possible mostly that
just makes it easier to work with it
doesn't have to have no air left in it
it's just easier if it's mostly water
and then I just drop this down on top of
the cabbage and you'll see a little bit
of water come up around the edges of the
bag but the cabbage will stay neatly
submerged under the bag and of course
the bag form fits to the edges of the
container so it makes a really good seal
on there keeping all of the air out so
the bad bacteria you can't work I'll
usually throw just a dish towel on top
of this especially if I'm letting it sit
in some other room in the kitchen to
keep the dust and whatever out of it and
then like I said just let it sit for two
to three weeks or you can even let it
sit for several months usually after two
or three weeks I'll take it out and put
it in mason jars in refrigerator but
obviously this is a technique that was
used for a long time for preserving the
sauerkraut without refrigeration so it's
perfectly buy and let it sit this way
for months and just continue to sour
and that's homemade sauerkraut